libui-ffi/README.md, before:

# libui-bindings

Autogenerated bindings to [`libui-ng`](https://github.com/libui-ng/libui-ng) for use in the high-level rust version of [`libui`](https://github.com/libui-rs/libui). It is not meant to be used directly. Compared to other bindings, the goal is to cut down on the buildtool dependencies to ease installation and compilation.

## Prerequisits & Building

Required are only compiler, linker and the UI platform SDK. No CMake, no Python, no Meson.

__Linux:__
* libgtk-3-dev (debian package) - UI platform headers
* libclang (debian package) - for generating the `libui-ng` bindings.

__Windows:__
* MSVC (via Windows SDK or Visual Studio) - Platform headers, compiler and linker. 
* LLVM - for generating the `libui-ng` bindings.

### Why libclang / LLVM?
Bindgen relies on libclang, but [doesn't ship it](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-bindgen/issues/918).

### Does MinGW work instead of MSVC?
Not sure. MinGW-64 instead of MSVC does compile and link. libui applications compiled with MinGW-64 versions <= 4.X won't start due to MinGW missing `TaskDialog()`. Later versions should work properly.

Commit message:

fixed performance and layout issues on window

libui-ffi/README.md, after:

# libui-ffi

Autogenerated bindings to [`libui-ng`](https://github.com/libui-ng/libui-ng) for use in the high-level rust version of [`libui`](https://github.com/libui-rs/libui). It is not meant to be used directly. Compared to other bindings, the goal is to cut down on the buildtool dependencies to ease installation and compilation.

## Prerequisits & Building

Required are compiler, linker, git and the UI platform SDK. No CMake, no Python, no Meson.

__Linux:__
* libgtk-3-dev (debian package) - UI platform headers
* libclang (debian package) - for generating the `libui-ng` bindings.

__Windows:__
* MSVC (via Windows SDK or Visual Studio) - Platform headers, compiler and linker. 
* LLVM - for generating the `libui-ng` bindings.

### Why libclang / LLVM?
Bindgen relies on libclang, but [doesn't ship it](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-bindgen/issues/918).

### Does MinGW work instead of MSVC?
Not sure. MinGW-64 instead of MSVC does compile and link. libui applications compiled with MinGW-64 versions <= 4.X won't start due to MinGW missing `TaskDialog()`. Later versions should work properly.

## Patches

This crate applies some patches to libui-ng to provide a better experience. Please see the `patches` directory.
* `fix_container_performance.patch` - libui-ng suffers from horrible performance under Windows due to some custom drawing related to container controls. The patch fixes that, with the drawback that the tab control background has the standard dialog color (gray instead of white for most light themes).
* `allow_small_pbar.patch` - The progress bar minimum width is reduced for Windows to better match the behaviour of GTK and Cocoa progress bars.
